# FM 101
Author: Expert Sleepers Ltd

License: This work is licensed under [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/?ref=chooser-v1) 

## Overview
A simple 2-operator FM patch. Both VCOs produce sine waves; the output of the first modulates the linear FM input on the second.

## Breakdown

### Clock
The Clock algorithm generates an 1/8th note clock on **Aux 1** and a reset pulse on **Aux 2**.

### Step sequencer
The sequencer takes its clock from **Aux 1** and reset from **Aux 2**. It outputs a pitch CV on **Aux 2**, and a gate on **Aux 1**.

### VCO with waveshaping
The VCO takes its pitch from **Aux 2** (the sequencer output) and outputs a sine wave on **Output 1**.

### Envelope (AR/AD)
This envelope controls the depth of the FM. It is triggered on **Aux 1** (the gate from the sequencer) and outputs its envelope on **Aux 3**.

### VCA/Multiplier
This VCA applies the FM depth envelope to the VCO output. The CV input is **Aux 3** (the envelope output) and the signal input and output are on **Output 1** (i.e. the VCA multiplies the VCO output by the envelope and replaces the signal on the bus).

### VCO with waveshaping
This second VCO is the one that is modulated by the first. It takes its pitch from **Aux 2** (the sequencer output) and the FM signal from **Output 1**. Its sine wave output replaces the signal on **Output 1**.

### Envelope (AR/AD)
This envelope controls the volume of the output signal. It is triggered on **Aux 1** (the gate from the sequencer) and outputs its envelope on **Aux 3**.

### VCA/Multiplier
This VCA applies the volume envelope to the second VCO output. The CV input is **Aux 3** (the envelope output) and the signal input and output are on **Output 1** (i.e. the VCA multiplies the VCO output by the envelope and replaces the signal on the bus).

### Oscilloscope
Simply allows you to visualise the output waveforms.

### Reverb (Clouds)
A final output reverb for a bit of ear candy. Left and right inputs are both **Output 1**; left and right outputs are **Output 1** and **Output 2**. The output mode is set to Replace so that the mix control works as expected.
